1. Reduced food waste Minimizing food loss and wastage throughout the food
supply chain from harvest to consumption

2. Plant-rich diets Eating more plant-based foods and fewer animal proteins
and products (e.g., meat, dairy)

13. Clean cookstoves Using cookstoves that burn fuel more efficiently 

25. Composting Converting biodegradable waste into a useful soil
fertilizer instead of sending it to the landfill

3. Silvopasture Adding trees to pastures to increase productivity 

5. Tropical staple trees Growing trees and other perennial crops for staple
protein, fats, and starch

7. Tree intercropping Growing trees together with annual crops in a given area
at the same time

8. Regenerative agriculture Adopting at least four of the following six agricultural
practices: compost application, cover crops, crop
rotation, green manures, no-till or reduced tillage, and/or
organic production

9. Farmland restoration Restoring degraded, abandoned farmland to grow crops
or native vegetation

10. Managed grazing Adjusting stocking rates, timing, and intensity of grazing
in grassland soils

12. System of rice
intensification
and improved rice
cultivation
Adopting low-methane rice production methods for small
or large operations

19. Conservation agriculture Adopting crop rotation, cover crops, and reduced tillage
practices on agricultural land

28. Nutrient management Reducing the use of fertilizer use on farmland 

29. Farmland irrigation Installing water and energy saving irrigation systems,
such as drip irrigation
4. Electric vehicles Driving battery and plug-in vehicles instead of
conventional vehicles

26. Ridesharing Using ride-sharing services and/or carpooling 

11. Mass transit Using public transportation for commuting in cities
instead of individual vehicles

15. Telepresence Using video-conferencing technologies in place of
commercial flights

16. Hybrid cars Driving hybrid cars instead of conventional cars 

17. Bicycle infrastructure Biking to destinations in cities instead of using cars

18. Walkable cities Walking to destinations in cities instead of using cars 

22. Electric bicycles Using electric bikes for urban transport instead
of using cars

6. Rooftop solar Installing rooftop photovoltaic systems under one
megawatt

14. Solar water Using solar radiation to pre-heat or heat water for
building use

20. Methane digesters Adopting technologies that produce biogas for household
heating through anaerobic digestion of organic waste

21. LED lighting Using energy efficient lighting in households 
23. Household water saving Using water saving devices in homes such as low-flow
showerheads

24. Smart thermostats Using devices that reduce heating and cooling demand
through sensors and settings in the home

27. Household recycling and
recycled paper
Recycling paper, metal, plastic, and glass materials 

30. Micro wind Installing small wind turbines to provide household
electricity needs